grenadine: thin syrup made from pomegranate juice; used in mixed drinks
Demonic: relating to or characteristic of demons or evil spirits.
hefty: Of considerable weight and size.
gladiolus: any of numerous plants of the genus Gladiolus native chiefly to tropical and South Africa having sword-shaped leaves and one-sided spikes of brightly colored funnel-shaped flowers; widely cultivated
Effeminate: (of a man) having characteristics regarded as typical of a woman; unmanly.
concretize: make something concrete
manikin: a life-size dummy used to display clothes.
canvass: get opinions by asking specific questions.
lubbrly: clumsy and unskilled.
cordial: politely warm and friendly.
jocular: characterized by jokes and good humor.
Utopian: of or pertaining to or resembling a utopia.
tamp: press down tightly.
Ecstasy: an overwhelming feeling of great happiness or joyful excitement
obbligato: a part of the score that must be performed without change or omission.
woodsy: characteristic or suggestive of woods.
ha-ha: a loud laugh that sounds like a horse neighing.
stevedore: a laborer who loads and unloads vessels in a port.
effervescence: the process of bubbling as gas escapes.
bromidic: given to uttering bromides.
canoodle: fondle or pet affectionately.
satrap: a governor of a province in ancient Persia.
congeries: a sum total of many heterogenous things taken together.
twain: two items of the same kind.
kittiwake: small pearl-grey gull of northern regions.
polysemy: the ambiguity of an individual word or phrase that can be used (in different contexts) to express two or more different meanings.
madrigal: an unaccompanied partsong for several voices.
bollard: a strong post.
parvenu: a person who has suddenly risen to a higher economic status.
bowdlerize: edit by omitting or modifying parts considered indelicate.
mountebank: a flamboyant deceiver.
hauteur: overbearing pride with a superior manner toward inferiors.
Androgyny: Having both male and female characters.
annulment: an official or legal cancellation.
quasi: having some resemblance.
Yugoslavia: a former country of southeastern Europe bordering the Adriatic Sea; formed in 1918 and named Yugoslavia in 1929; controlled by Marshal Tito as a communist state until his death in 1980.
paleobotany: the study of fossil plants.
cephalopodan: relating or belonging to the class Cephalopoda.
Serbian: of or relating to the people or language or culture of the region of Serbia.
tribunal: an assembly to conduct judicial business.
ague: successive stages of chills and fever that is a symptom of malaria.
Netherlands: a constitutional monarchy in western Europe on the North Sea.
Bosnian: of or relating to or characteristic of Bosnia-Herzegovina or the people of Bosnia.
Albanian: of or relating to Albania or its people or language or culture.
Kosovo: a republic in the Balkan Peninsula that declared independence from Serbia in 2008; populated predominantly by Albanians.
Chile: a republic in southern South America on the wtern slopes of the Andes on the south Pacific coast.
humiliating: causing embarrassment or awareness of your shortcomings.
Suharto: Indonesian statesman who seized power from Sukarno in 1967.
contemplate: think intently and at length, as for spiritual purposes.
Peruvian: of or relating to or characteristic of Peru or its people.
oust: remove from a position or office.
Hyperbole: exaggerated statements or claims not meant to be taken literally.
subsequently: happening at a time later than another time.
massacre: the savage and excessive killing of many people.
civilian: a nonmilitary citizen.
revolt: rise up against an authority.
fascist: an adherent of right-wing authoritarian views.
revered: profoundly honored.
regime: the governing authority of a political unit
Mandela: South African statesman who was released from prison to become the nation’s first democratically elected president in 1994 (born in 1918).
triumphantly: in a triumphant manner.
Pretoria: city in the Transvaal.
culminate: end, especially to reach a final or climactic stage.
assassinated: murdered by surprise attack for political reasons.
Ferdinand I: king of Castile and Leon who achieved control of the Moorish kings of Saragossa and Seville and Toledo (1016-1065).
Suharto: Indonesian statesman who seized power from Sukarno in 1967.
Burmese: of or relating to or characteristic of Myanmar or its people.
Beijing: capital of the People’s Republic of China in the Hebei province in northeastern China; 2nd largest Chinese city.
Kyrgyzstan: a landlocked republic in west central Asia bordering on northwestern China; formerly an Asian soviet but became independent in 1991.
Venezuela: a republic in northern South America on the Caribbean.
charismatic: possessing an extraordinary ability to attract.
daw: common black-and-grey Eurasian bird noted for thievery.
upsurge: a sudden or abrupt strong increase.
suffrage: a legal right to vote.
minimal: the least possible.
insurgency: an organized rebellion aimed at overthrowing a government.
Sri Lanka: a republic on the island of Ceylon.
torture: infliction of suffering to punish or obtain information
Guatemala: a republic in Central America.
Bangladesh: a Muslim republic in southern Asia bordered by India to the north and west and east and the Bay of Bengal to the south; formerly part of India and then part of Pakistan; it achieved independence in 1971.
Manipulate: influence or control shrewdly or deviously.
Bolivia: a landlocked republic in central South America.
Stringent: demanding strict attention to rules and procedures.
Vulnerable: capable of being wounded or hurt.
Prod: push against gently.
Famine: a severe shortage of food resulting in starvation and death.
Eradicate: destroy completely, as if down to the.
Barista: A person who’s job involves preparing different types of coffee.
Ambiguity: The quality of being open to more that one interpretation; inexactness.
Philanthropy: the desire to promote the welfare of others, expressed especially by the generous donation of money to good causes.
Felicitous: well chosen or suited to the circumstances.
Anent: Concerning, about.
Anarchy: a state of disorder due to absence or non-recognition of authority or other controlling systems.
Alchemy: the medieval forerunner of chemistry, concerned with the transmutation of matter, in particular with attempts to convert base metals into gold or find a universal elixir.
Barbecue: a meal or gathering at which meat, fish, or other food is cooked out of doors on a rack over an open fire or on a special appliance.
Kaleidoscope: a toy consisting of a tube containing mirrors and pieces of coloured glass or paper, whose reflections produce changing patterns when the tube is rotated.
Torpedo: a cigar-shaped self-propelled underwater missile designed to be fired from a ship or submarine or dropped into the water from an aircraft and to explode on reaching a target.
Tapestry: a piece of thick textile fabric with pictures or designs formed by weaving colored weft threads or by embroidering on canvas, used as a wall hanging or soft furnishing.
Pendulum: a weight hung from a fixed point so that it can swing freely, especially a rod with a weight at the end that regulates the mechanism of a clock.